welcome to GUI and in web browsers we
click all four 9th of October 2019
I'll be leading this call and we have an
agenda if anyone present on the call we
got the trip we got Henrique if anyone
wants to join next week three free to
join
we are back so we got an agenda and I'll
share the agenda the first item on the
list is pre-caching assets making web UI
work in offline mode so that one is mine
so I'll give a quick update on this one
so the idea is when user installs - ipfs
companion the first thing they want to
do especially in the next release there
will be a button when everything is set
up there will be a button open web UI so
that's the very first thing new user is
doing opening web UI the problem is if
the web if it's the very first time user
is opening web UI the web UI is not in
the local repo the web UI is fetched
from ipfs and needs to be loaded from
the network itself that's pretty good
for like dogfooding and stuff however
it's not that good for user experience
and also not that good for offline use
cases so for example if someone goes to
to a cafe or if - internet cafe or a
friend where there's a Wi-Fi and they
install ipfs companion and like a
Kieffer's desktop and they shut the
laptop down and then go someplace
without the networking and they want to
play with ipfs they try to open web UI
and nothing happens because the note is
not able to find those blocks so it's
also not connected to the network and
it's not able to open web UI so that's
pretty bad for the offline use case and
the way I figured out to mitigate this
is to basically precache web UI in a way
that's native to ipfs so the idea is to
basically bundle an archive with web web
UI assets with the browser extension
itself and then on the very first time
user is starting I profess companion we
check if web UI is present in local
repository if it's not present in local
repository we check if the tower archive
is present in the bundle because not we
may not want to bundle it on every
platform we need to figure it out if
it's okay to bundle it Firefox and other
stuff but if the web UI is not in local
repository we have it locally as a file
and we just import that file to local
note on the first boat and that's pretty
fast it's like the uncompressed web UI
it is about 22 megabytes but compressed
is 11 megabytes with companion itself so
companion on its own is 4 megabytes if
we add web UI it's 11 compressed and
it's pretty cool the pretty cool thing
is that what we include in the bundle is
at our archive which is an archive which
is not compressed itself and companion
and whether you I share a lot of assets
such like phones and some like some
images and other assets so those are
basically duplicated that's why we got
this pretty good compression and I feel
like 11 megabytes for chromium extension
is not that bad not that good
either but you get this offline first
experience so that's implemented and we
will land at some point in the future
pretty happy with it because it's not
specific to a DUI we this way we are
able to be we may even like extract this
and create a library for doing that in
other apps
I know that in ifs desktop we sort of
have web UI shipped locally because
there are different constraints but for
browser extensions and other
applications that wants to ship some
data that needs to be available
immediately without fetching it from the
network this may be useful and in ipfs
companion this means when you open web
UI it will be available instantly so the
first load won't take a long time right
now it can be a few seconds of even up
to a minute if your network is slow and
you are not lucky so that's a
pre-caching assets and the next item is
experimenting collaborative website
hosting I'll probably move that after
update all ipfs in web browsers so the
trick do you want to take this one
sure so thank you very much
Lytle for helping with the ipfs and web
browsers blog post which I will share
here momentarily I have really a lot of
browser windows up so if this is the
right one hey this ya confessed for
advisors update so we put together a
summary of kind of where we've been with
browser integrations and where we want
get to but more like a hint where we get
to most of its talking
where we are today integrations with
brave and the work that everyone's been
doing Lydell driving that for the last
almost are over a year now at this point
so really the culmination of really a
lot a lot of work and a lot of help from
Gravesend as well it's so nice to have a
browser they're so willing to work with
us and experiment and and exposing
capabilities and figuring out what
really needs to happen to be able to
make distributed network entirely inside
of the browser and then also the kind of
first public announcement of us working
with opera and opera planning on
shipping ipfs support with the full
addressing spec in Opera for Android by
the end of this year so that should
should should be interesting and I
talked to to up to Ollie this morning a
little bit about getting the bootstrap
servers up and ready for that at some
point if we has seen boost in traffic
from from both of these things happening
and better awareness around them as well
you know talking a little bit about the
stages like where we want to get to
eventually but there and some of the
background history and why it's hard to
change browsers it's very cool to be
able to have
all of the videos available from the
various IP Festivus were where people
actually talked about this kind of stuff
all that going back all the way to uh to
last summer when we have Idol and Kyle
definitely like I think that was
actually only above that might admit a
month or something after Lindy Webb was
most fully announced really a scroll
back through the history and a hint of
where we want to go and one of the
things that we didn't really talk about
in this post and then I feel like I'd
love to be able to talk about more once
we get into to 2020 planning are things
like out co-hosting is really big
co-hosting really speaks to kind of the
core use cases that we talked about when
talking about why IP fess is good and
why we were doing this in the first
place and and it's a kind of our first
at first serious foray into figure out
what those user flows are for I'm a
regular person and I want to be able to
share I wanna be able to see if
something I also want to share it what
does that mean how do I do it so I'm
really I feel like with browser
integration we're getting things to the
point where regular people can start to
have access to distributed networked
without having to install extra stuff
necessarily but that next step is even
more important and that's really working
out the kinks and those types of
workflows if I view Wikipedia how can I
make sure that my neighbor can also be
Wikipedia if all of our internet goes
out right right then so those that I
think the talking a little bit about
that that next view what comes next once
we have network capability
what comes next steps we smooth out the
bumps for those those really common use
cases how to share how to publish how to
read what I'm saved and a lot of the
intricacies of where's my stuff I've got
multiple repos multiple devices and web
browser extension and web content and
mobiles about you know like up other
local going P fest node I'm think
there's a lot of work to do is smooth
out the bumps but this is a big progress
and then so far the reaction on on the
Twitter's been pretty good and I got
retweeted by ipfs bot so that would that
means it's official let's legit and I'm
really getting a lot of positive
feedback people are pretty excited and
interestingly a bunch of projects
talking about mdns so like I think those
were its
if you if you work in the space long
enough you have an understanding that
that local connectivity is one of like
it's like that that Holy Grail that
cornerstone of two devices be able to
talk to each other and and discover each
other and be able to interact whether
it's IP fests or any other other
distributed network and especially in
offline scenarios so that kind of like
people people are excited be able to see
that we're looking at that and I think
once we have some really good demos and
development scenarios like API somewhere
close for browser to browser browser
communication I think we're gonna see
even more interest on what we're seeing
right now so the interest that we're
seeing right now is people have that
kind of longer efficient but once you
make local network pressor browser
development a little bit easier in the
simple publishing we're close like it's
going to be it's going to be really I'm
not a lot of a lot of abilities for
people so that's pretty much it thick
things for again for for helping with
that like you are a a font of history
and you had all these great links to all
these videos and resources and all the
way issues yeah thank you for creating
this summary it's a very good overview
and I really like that's it's so much
stuff it the way it balances like over
overarching roadmap and where we are
today without going to too deep into
technical details that's super useful
because otherwise if it was too
technical people will just shut off and
it was very nice with I I enjoyed it
thank you
we'll get there oh I I do have some more
I actually have some diet some like
visualizations I did to that kind of
model what the different permutations
and configurations of inside brave are
that I didn't actually put the post
until it forgot what we can save those
for a future it's a detailed technical
post about what you did in brave and on
a crazy crazy high jinks like no really
we're writing a web server inside of a
web extension the next the next one it
is q400 quieres yes
so I that kind of that but that blog
post actually is a lot of what we wanted
to do like that's the p0 for kind of for
the web browsers group anyway for 4q for
the Opera is gonna ship and we're gonna
help as much as we can with that we're
gonna be able to communicate those
things brave we talked about like what a
brave 1v1 looks like at browser week
which I'll talk about next last last
week when we or we prefer last one we're
in Malta but um and we we actually did
narrow down a set of cases their
LinkedIn me that's what we notice about
what that v1 might look like
I think but but ultimately like the fact
that it's available in the way that it
is especially now that the sockets are
white listed in release rate which I
didn't realize that's awesome i we're
standing on pretty solid grounds to be
able to have like brave isn't great i
professing brave isn't thing that exists
and and people can use today i I really
like the way this sort of like a soft
launch of experimental embedded note
with a gateway that people can see over
time how like performance improves and
other things and the v1 sort of if I was
the end user for me the the v1 is when
we got like ipfs colon slash slash
indication bar that's like probably
trivial but that's like this cherry on
top when you like say oh it's probably
done right but until until we get
protocol handler API or like this better
ux of address bar we will iterate on the
performance of method note which I'm
pretty happy is there anything that is
there anything on our end that we can do
to to help the development of protocol
handler new protocol handler and brave
like is that something that's happening
at the brave level or is that required
underlying chromium changes on there and
this argument for maybe us doing more
direct browser development are that that
would require checking in with the
person that will be
but there are two ways one is sort of
like just visual just tackling the
visual side so basically having HTTP
connection to HTTP gateway on the
backend however on the user interface
just change your address bar and that
something couldn't be easily done with
like a smaller patch
however like introducing something on
par with native protocol handler for
browser extension when you actually have
no like HTTP connection you just inject
bytes right from from JavaScript that's
something closer to chromium and also we
want it to be closer to chromium past
it's not going that way it could be
reused in other places and having the
same web extension API between like
Firefox and chromium would be a dream
right and yeah so like right on Oprah
and it's like like as a segue I'm
working on addressing some bugs related
to adding files from web UI in brave
when using embedded
Jacek TFS sorry it's bit technical but
long story short is that we there was a
bug which I found but we did not have
tests so that's very fortunate that we
have testing with you is one of our key
ours yes so that is the next segue thank
you very much I wait so what we have two
acres that are really kind of related to
this group for q4 and the first one is
the opera brave and the second one is to
improve the intent testing scenario and
we talked a little bit about this last
quarter I you know hoc you started some
of the some of the testing work there
and and then Lydell out of this web UI
testing matrix and one of the things I
actually think that the priority is
probably flipped here like the browser
stuff is p0 for q4 and the testing is
pp1 I think
but I actually think the testing bit it
should be our our p0 the the fact that
go has somehow to release in a while
javascript is having ready really
regular releases but neither of those
core implementations have their end to
end testing fully set up and running
makes it even more important that we
have our own and and testing set up so
in you know as as those core
implementations are making big changes
we need to be able to know immediately
when web UI companion or desktop all
break because of a change that happened
from integrated core implementation or
some module dependency down there in the
infinite tree of modules that we depend
on so that's why I think like for me the
from a instead of you know we don't want
to take you know one step forward and
two steps back are getting this test
suite set up even with this minimal you
know matrix that that Lytle you put here
really is probably the most important
thing that we need to finish this
quarter so I'd love to be able to know
how what what do what can I do to be
able to help this what do you need from
an infrastructure standpoint how much of
this work is already done it just needs
to be put together and put it in the CI
somehow do we want to have do we need
some daily operation do we need per
commit operation of execution of these
tests how much of this is blocking on
and say infrastructure and test
performance improvements like what he
does working on it's a nice it's a nice
small table but I feel like there's a
whole lot of stuff wrapped up in there
yeah so generally just like I said there
are different dimensions to this I think
that the starting point I think we sort
of agree is that web UI should be a home
like the web UI repo should be a home
for those tests so basically whether you
I would test itself against chromium
Firefox and electron and then testing
itself against like go ipfs over HTTP
api JS ipfs over HTTP api and then like
stuff like embedded JS ipfs in brave
it's something I could add on top of
that but we need this like lower-level
infrastructure for having these test
matrix and if we have this test matrix
this test should set up in ipfs web UI
it's why it's important it's important
because for example recently J's ipfs
has an early adopter program and the way
it works they enable other projects
maybe I or maybe it was named something
else early tester Iridessa
oh yeah I saw some people submitted PRS
to be able to add yeah so it's if anyone
is interested in joining it's in
Guiseppe for three point Docs that's a
program and basically the idea is you
can join the you can join and your
project will be tested against new
versions of J's ipfs as a part of CI
infrastructure so that's why going back
here if we have a web UI having
self-contained tests for this then we
could just submit to that program and
not only having like web UI testing
itself then if Jarius ipfs makes a
change it would run web UI tests against
a new version of trace ipfs and that
would be a very like a canary in a coal
mine
in sum if something goes wrong and
similar I believe the same like process
could be then be used for go ipfs cuz
that's a pretty pretty elegant solution
when you have the elect project testing
itself and then you just have other
project testing itself against that
project by just bumping its own version
so
that's where my mind is around those
tests and I would be happy to to help
with setting it up for cost like
chromium Firefox I need that for
aquifers companion and like electron and
Ricans that for aquifers desktop so will
but like entire framework it's a common
for all cases so as soon as I'm like
done with this bug I'm working on four
brave probably jump into this and help
with this and the thoughts on testing
because I'm very far I'm very like laser
focused on just that having minimum test
of like adding file and I think like a
directory and then we can like yeah III
think that's the right approach we get
all the environments covered we get the
CIA running I'm going out with right
cadence for the CIS and then after that
we can add more coverage like getting
that getting framework up and running is
I think the biggest piece cool and I
think I'm testing or do we move to what
what what's your big what's your biggest
concern about what's the biggest risk in
this what's gonna be the hardest part
because you've already set up a bunch of
desktop testing and stuff before I when
I pick this up I'd like to do more
instrument tests but I can't because
test menus and that's basically what I
get has SOPs so for what do i I think
the main issue might be uploading files
I'm not sure if it's really easy to do
in twin tests simulating we are
uploading something by tracking dropping
or even clicking on I think it would be
easier to click on the key buttons
but I think I
search a little bit for about this and
it would not be really easy to do but I
can take a look see if that's true or
not yeah you find even if you just
simulated it right like I I would say
spend less time in trying to get the UI
bit done then getting the whole flow
done even if you're actually just like
halves JavaScript injected into the web
UI page that just hey I'm in test mode
upload this this file let's make file
and then later we can figure out event
simulation and stuff like that it was
like for additional context historically
I remember when stuff broke in the
collection it was not usually not
related to like user interface
interaction it was mostly stuff like Oh
URL object is kind of different than
libera browser or the fetch event is not
really the same as in node nor like in
web browser all those like intricacies
were code specific not UI specific so
that may be a good point that's also
there is something that if we test web
UI on electrum when we directories it
won't work on a line it just works if we
type if a desktop because we have a
custom function to call an electric
function that opens the open directory
dialog it won't work if we just test it
against a row electrum version yeah that
might be like a local problem how to
sculpt those tests because like I know
if we really really want to test it like
end to end including user interface on
like UNIX and when there's like x11
windows like you can basically like
programmatically produce keyboard and
mouse events but that's basically
writing at custom testing framework for
your eyes and I sort of wanted to
believe something like that
exists or could be adapted to our needs
but yeah that that's something we'll
look at this quarter
yeah I think the most minimal case that
gets it into CI
then we can figure out the the rest of
the wrinkles later because like I think
you're right like we're gonna we're
gonna keep we've already experienced
this problem with the fact that
electrons and isn't many headed beast
all right what
workweek Deitrick you gathered us for a
week so maybe you say yeah so I think
I'm let's see if I can find us
I can find that the right tab come on I
know how to browser
you
Hey so yes we took a couple days to do
some planning
for planning for 2020 and then we we
picked it up at him to hack on it and
and try to figure out for complete yeah
the key for planning was basically we
already talked about couldn't with the
q4 of cara's are some of that was
actually like reducing the set so
instead of trying to go big at 1/4 where
we have lab week quarter we have
holidays happening and we also have 2020
planning happening let's narrow the set
of things and see how we can help the
other parts of the project as well so
that includes things like helping with
the async refactor if we have time and
then doing this prioritizing this
testing work as well the the next big
piece was actually kind of identifying
what what they what the set of I mean we
had a lot of stuff to test there's a big
list here the next big piece that was
kind of like what our priorities for
2020 in browser specifically
understanding what the developer
experience should be for people who are
developing with ipfs what didn't need a
browser implementation would look like
so we were like we have a pretty good
feel now for what it looks like when
companion is running inside of a browser
what the constraints are capabilities
are what kind of features we need to be
able to we need to be able to run out
full note but a native browser
invitation looks really differently a
native browser application likely is not
going to be companion bundle native
implementation is probably gonna have to
be in C++ or rust and what that looks
like in chromium is kind of TBD in
Firefox they they're already shipping
large chunks of rust and replacing bits
of the browser with that but I'm not
familiar with what that landscape looks
like in chromium we'll probably indeed
we have an open higher position for a
browser engineer and I think at this
point what we really want because we're
gonna get the most browser coverage for
many Daria's be able to get a
experienced chrome developer onboard and
joined the team and I made that call out
in the in the browser blog post as well
and then finally the user experience is
part of it so if we want to be able to I
could miss running native browsers and
integrated we need to be able to
communicate what the threat model is
what does
design of the URL bar needs to be and
why what needs to be communicated when
the content is well one
cryptographically verifiable but also
can come from anywhere and it has
ramifications outside of privacy and
security also in the areas of power
consumption CPA utilization and other
things of then power trade-offs as well
so a lot to figure out there this table
is the prioritized list of 2020 projects
where we went through each one of the
things that we knew where open issues
that we need to be able to fix in
browsers to be able to get a full up and
running IPS node now one thing in this
list that is not clear is that that that
split between what it looks like when we
have companion well it looks like we
have JSOC ufs running and web content
and then the third what happens when we
have actual native ipfs running so like
things like the some of the connectivity
issues that we have here are less of an
issue for use cases where we're using IP
MS natively but when ipfs is used in a
web application running in web content
and you have native ipfs node we kind of
haven't really like gained out what that
topology looks like what the interaction
looks like and how that application runs
is talk to the local node doesn't talk
to over h to be the local node just
talking to try to get native
connectivity to the local node you just
use web RTC to speak to eat built-in
like we haven't really figured that
those bits out so this is the kind of a
stack ranked list of things that we
identified the from prior prior a
prioritization perspective that we need
to fix in order to address the world of
ipfs suppressors as we that's the world
is today so assuming that there's no
native implementation this is talking
about what web content JSI PFS running
in a web page today under an HTTP loaded
web page needs in order to be able to
connect and the cid v1 basis ready to
work is highest priority because that
affects the contents of the repos that
affects everybody who's adding things
today with a with a cid that's not base
their due compatible believe they need
to be migrated or we blow it away like
we blow away every post but content
today another issue that we here have to
figure out at some point
but that becomes be
the nature of how the data is stored cid
v1 based r2 is the highest priority for
for 2020 in order to set us up for the
next you know you know about five years
of ipfs work without having to worry
about the the addressing format
compatibility of the address in product
at the next phase that it was
interesting so we didn't actually do
these groupings of category like
compatibility connectivity UX
intentionally but actually we were
talking about the projects themselves
and that got grouping really ended up
clustering of topics and the topping on
its own so that was kind of fascinating
that we were kind of I didn't add the
category stuff until later so we were
actually just looking at the list of
projects and me and Hugo and Lionel just
like intensely for hours talking about
each one of these and slowly doing this
sort based on the technical bits behind
each one of them and afterwards I went
through did the group he goes I go we
have we have a live a an emergent
clustering it's very important that
connectivity makes sense that
connectivity is gonna be the biggest
thing in our mind because everything
else we can fix back after that after
the back so that's that's kind of what
came out of this we still have some next
steps around reconciling this list with
the like I feel like it'll probably end
up being like us attacking these things
because the HTTP world will live on for
the next prolly forevers reconciling
this against what a native implication
looks like how those two interplay
together when you have these mixed
hybrid environments is which will
probably have forever so we will have a
good story for how that works what the
developer workflows are for that what
connectivity options happen when you
have JSF PFS nodes running in an HTTP
web page but you also have a 82 bed
reading the same same browser we don't
want to do things like say bundling
happy that's that's that's good for now
but that's not at the end of 2020 we
want to be able to have a better story
for for how we actually handled that
type of situation
but the idea of a web server running
inside a web browser is something that
probably is really powerful and will
pilot hot so if we have an even better
story for that and then a crazy module
stack that isn't designed for the
environment necessarily and that
pregnant said the entire d web kind of
space itself since i suspect that will
be that's kind of like this simplest p2p
louisville local network with to browse
talk to each other scenario that you can
think about phrase and my PFS isn't
really a level up on top of that in
terms of architecture and complexity and
feature set but as a test case for that
it's having mdns and a webserver like
you've got a direct browser browser
connection at that point so we prove
that out there will float all boats and
we are gonna need that probably for the
long term in some form anyway so that
that's kind of what we talked about in
terms of 2020 planning you know like
loose loose looks at what the timeline
might look like really just blue sky
putting it up there will be the big
pieces and then spend some time digging
into some of these these deeper problems
like we've spent a bunch time talking
about the wave you I probably brave and
really now the light is almost done
implementing that and then some of the
other long-term brothers like you know
we have I profess how many ipfs nodes
can we write on one machine ideally it
would just be one so and and and really
that ends up speaking back to the HTTP
model as well so if we really only want
one I picked us snowed running on any
machine in any given time you we're
gonna be up we're gonna have to speak
HTTP to that node even in that that
perfect dish
fish world so lots lots of discussions
all the notes are linked in this in this
I can be that one of the fun parts was
the next couple days where we actually
dug into a technical problem so we said
okay should we say spent two days
hacking on web RTC connectivity should
we spend two days hacking on there are
other different routing optimizations
and things like that should we spend two
days hacking on performance and while
doing the Interop test conversion to
async Hugo found that the IP of NGS ipfs
tests for basic ads where sometimes
pathologically slow he found it was
taking a minute sometimes to be able to
add not
really file that should not take a
minute to that so we said okay let's
take those two days and kind of dig into
two ways that we can solve it and I
didn't find where the slow time was
coming from and it looked like it was IO
bound like there was a there's two
issues to two major pieces that he
investigating like just he implemented
the datastore API with just a memory
database to see if there is a
improvement there and it because we use
a level to be wrapper running a web page
that talks to index DB which actually in
Chrome is also level 2b in the backend
so we have level DB ception there and on
firefox it's kind of similar but it's
SQLite on the back end that's IDB
actually they might have a different
datastore at this point on the back end
but either way you have a storage
wrappers talking to a storage wrapper
talking just storage wrapper talking to
storage talking to the disk so what
happens when we remove some of those
wrappers than their early or the results
were showing a massive improvement but
then when he when he when he talked to
IDB natively weren't seeing the same
results but one thing that we did notice
is that when I pick test ads when you're
adding a file it chunks it all up and
makes all those rights individual rights
to the datastore those were not wrapped
up in a transaction so it was do you
making each one of those rights at the
IDB level as an individual transaction
and IDB provides transaction semantics
to be able to take all this right split
em up and then make the file system the
file IO happenin and one large
transaction was supposed to a whole
bunch of different independent atomic
rights this is a lesson that we learned
in browser lands and and really the
lesson played out here as well once
adding transactions before it got about
a 50% increase in performance in both
ads and and I think there was it gets as
well but I don't remember exactly but
the the rights for sure we had a massive
promoters increase so that has not
landed yet as far as I know and we're
still waiting on ego to merge those
changes but that will be a significant
improvement and I profess and webpages
hi and was it also note as well that we
get those the batching improvement yeah
you know but sinker both
personally I'm really excited for brave
because in brave everything is in the
single-page context so any performance
improvement with you can eyeball it that
it's faster so it could be super cool so
that that was the thing we went our
separate ways it was a fun week thank
you for this make it happen
is it yeah it's it's a little tense when
you get you know it's actually the small
group can be can be kind of more intense
than the big group sometimes because you
can go and next time I think we need to
get a little more organized and happy
the ipfs web UI and desk the browser
desktop and web UI week push it up to
maybe five people six people I feel like
when we had 14 people in Lisbon it was
like two too much all at once and three
people was super intense about six
that's that we keep you that five yes we
we just need to figure out what what
Hawks testing schedule is at school and
make sure that we schedule around so
that you can join us especially like
some big overarching UX thing across
like companion like web in general and
desktop that's would be interesting cool
thank you to check the last item on the
agenda experiment in collaborative web
site hosting lazy vs. prefetched
co-hosting I could like probably write
more but I don't think it would be more
like it would be clearer now I apologize
I was not sure what to write but it's
basically this co-hosting spec which we
have been low-key experimenting those
are
explorations around tolls and
conventions for co-hosting websites
using hem FS so we want to see what's
possible with existing IP eyes and
namely amethyst.i
without like adding anything new to the
IP first core IP eyes so that dots does
the spec and the spec the first draft of
the spec on hundred this week it's very
simple it's just adding removing and
updating basically however from from the
implementation hacked it
he created a simple bar script so if you
want to see how this co-hosting would
work there's a shell script you can
download and it just had become a has
comments for adding removing and syncing
basically and from that hack noticed
that if he maybe I'll go to the spec
that maybe easier easier to show so when
you when you copy stuff to NFS so here
you can see we are copying ipfs resource
from ipfs namespace right turn the first
under co-hosting directory so this
operation is interesting because we
basically just create a pointer in MF s
to this ipfs path the thing is it's just
a pointer it's there
this operation does not touch data store
so if this harsh represents entire
Wikipedia you have entire Wikipedia in
your MF s however it's not physically on
your MF s it's not on your machine you
go to web UI you
go to files in web UI or you use command
line to traverse this directory under em
FS and with each like level each file
you open there it will be dynamically
loaded from the network because it's not
physically on your machine yet so
initially it was a bug so the idea was
to okay we need to add this step here to
ensure contents are in the local repo so
there's this command which lists or sub
blocks of entire dock which has a side
effect of prefetching everything to your
local repository so that is why like if
we do this before copying that ensures
everything that's in MF s it's
physically on your machine sorry for
this long introduction but I feel it's
necessary to understand what's happening
here so lazy co-hosting it's the idea of
that it's not actually a bug it's a
feature right and it's a very cool
feature because I don't you might have a
small disk and you're not able to store
entire Wikipedia but thanks to this
property of MF s of not being
proactively like prefetching stuff you
can store pointers to content that you
don't have fully but you may have a
subset of Wikipedia right if I go to
Wikipedia right now and start going
through some pages those pages I visit
are cached on my local network on my
local repository I don't have entire
Wikipedia I have a small subset of
Wikipedia and the idea behind LASIK or
hosting is that that's actually a
feature so some people may not want to
store anti Wikipedia some people want to
just ensure all the Wikipedia resources
they visited are being protected
being garbage collected are pinned or
are basically co-hosted so that's pretty
cool I'm able to like host a lot of
websites and I basically just share and
provide content to other people only the
content I've actually visited it works
like this right now so the only feature
on top of how ipfs works right now is
this implicit pinning right now when you
go to a page it's saved and cashed in
your local repository however at any
time garbage collection may remove it
unless it's pin if it's added to MF s
even as this pointer of an entire
website is how that as a pointer if you
have any sub resources of that in your
local repo and garbage collection is
happening that will protect them from
being garbage collected so that's that
background behind lazy co-hosting the
second issue I linked it's it's maybe is
explained in shorter terms because I see
it fits on my screen but I felt this
explanation was necessary to understand
how powerful this is you are able to
like have the entire Wikipedia as a
pointer and you can traverse it and from
a web websites like in web browser or
from web UI interface and you
progressively get content fetched so
this lazy co-hosting idea is - is a
proposal to like extend or to change or
tweak this co-hosting experiment in a
way that like makes use of this powerful
primitive and some exploration how the
user interface would look like so the
challenges are how do we communicate
difference between full snapshot full
co-hosting and this lazy where I only
share what I actually load that my like
on my own and then when user wants to go
to a Wikipedia page and wants to like
host Wikipedia what does what does that
mean because Wikipedia is like 40
gigabytes or 16 gigabytes with images
I'm not sure it's like ridiculous and to
fudge that if you like start a click
yeah I want to co-host this and if you
start prefetching entire thing should
that be a blocking cooperation or a
background operation and then we don't
have API to track progress of this patch
so it's a very an open question and
challenges how to communicate with user
and how to build those interfaces I
wrote some notes here basically either
we I sort of tend to lean on side where
we do lazy co-hosting by default and
only if user like explicitly said yeah I
won't entire Wikipedia or I want at this
entire website
physically on my desk so that's that's
much where I am right now but it needs a
lot more work and I'm really happy thank
you hug for like crazy low scripts and
working on spec and to helping us
pushing this hosting experiment further
cause this is exactly why I started this
experiment to like discover those hidden
gems in our API and what user
experiences could we build around them
because this m FS property of being a
pointer a laser pointer was there always
we just did not think in a way how to
productize that or how to expose that to
user and I really want to remove the
spinning interface from ipfs companion
make it more like seamless and I feel
like if compile would do this like lazy
pinning with like optional switch to
fall that would be much better
experience even for for companion but it
could be much more so there's the
discussion with more words I'll shut up
now sorry
that's awesome
hey we have
in late to ipfs Carlos si you said that
a PRG has coalesced as well what is the
difference between the script that you
did it
my PFS co-host would be a more beautiful
you know y-you know yet that's something
only did before with pin API but I
appeared to change the to match the spec
you had also a very good idea of
basically turning it into a library like
co-hosting librarian if people can embed
in their applications and basically in
activist companion and in ipfs desktop
we would we would just use this library
so that's also the shell script is just
a super simple shell script and it just
to quickly play with it or add it to
cron job so you can like put it on your
server and run it but honestly if you
have note there you could run this IP
fresco host as well it's just easier to
iterate why do we probably you end
through this one your comment five hours
ago but what about the idea of getting
new snapshots every X time like twelve
hours if it's a lazy co-host thing what
would happen that's that's one of open
questions the way I've been thinking if
it's lazy I still want to know when like
the route like the the website got
updated and the pointer in my MF s would
still get updated so if I want to go to
Anna fest I would see those snapshots so
it would still be lazy right we could
just the open question is how do we
distinguish distinguish yeah so you what
how this prefetching would work would
you just
I want to preferably fetch every website
I have co-hosted no probably not
but I want prefetch everything apart
from Wikipedia or I want to add
Wikipedia as a lazy however I want to
add this other smaller website
as a full snapshot because it's my
website I want to co-host it fully so
that's a good question how do we
distinguish it at the MF s level we
could like add the suffix to a directory
name or something I'm not sure it's an
open open question both on the like low
level how to represent that difference
between lazy and fall on the MF s site
especially and also like in in UX so if
anyone got ideas and a really simple
idea instead of a suffix or prefix or
something like that a simple file inside
the main name in the king if it's lazy
or full or having one by default and
just indicate in other ways or we could
have a separate separate sub directories
like like yeah it's probably probably
harder to answer is how to represent
that in like companion UI this choice
when you want to decide when you want to
decide is it lazy or full and like how
to give this UI to a user who may not
have the all the technical context so
probably we should tell Oh Wikipedia is
like 60 gigabytes in size we need to
really want do you really want to do
yeah stuff like that yeah so that's like
where we are with this lexical house
thing it's in the discussion phase right
now but it's pretty powerful 25 you and
I had discussion with Michelle
Hartsville last week on the Kinning
generally how pinning in ipfs ecosystem
works and I mentioned this em FS
experimentation we have so probably I
hope we also also bounce some ideas with
her to see how we can refine this UX
yeah it's interesting
I'm super excited about I think there
are higher-level workflows in
republishing sharing saving archiving
and republishing that'll get unlocked by
this initial low level work and
experimentation it is really exciting
yeah and also we sort of start seeing
there are problematic or missing KPIs
for things like when is this block or is
this CID in local repository is it fully
in this local repository or only a part
of it or how many percent of this thing
is local we don't either don't have
api's or will you need to chain multiple
api's through to get dots so that's also
like super powerful forcing function on
like thinking about those needs and what
those things could unlock so expect more
on co-hosting in the future I guess guys
we are over time unless there's anything
more to add I I'm really happy we are
back on track with this call and see you
next week bye